LibriVoxEd Exhibition

Curator: Amy Lundell

Background:
LibriVox.org is a self-described "acoustical liberation of books in the public
domain."  It is a crowdsourcing project consisting of scores of volunteers who
create free audio versions of books in the public domain (often available at
gutenberg.org or archive.org).  Covering both fiction and non-fiction, these
recordings vary from one person reading the entire book to fully dramatized
renditions.  As such, there can be more than recording of the same book.

Focusing on use in the classroom, LibriVoxEd will provide students and teachers
with the tools necessary to bring literature alive and off the page.  In the
past, cash-strapped educators were primarily relegated to using the freely
available online written version of a work in class.  LibriVoxEd gives all
educators the ability to reach their auditory learners through literature.
Students and teachers will be able to explore recordings based on several
different criteria ranging from narration type (solo, collaborative, dramatic)
to reader to original author.  This will open up new avenues of discovery and
introductions to new authors and works.  Links will be provided to not only the
recordings, but also to the online public domain written works themselves. In
addition, educators will have the ability to choose recordings based on their
particular needs such as running time (chapter or full) or audio language.  As
with the original site, my exhibition will be freely accessible online.
Production details metadata are provided by the librivox.org site.

Aims and Objectives:
-To introduce students and teachers to the world of crowdsourced audio
-To provide freely available online audio resources for students and teachers
-To provide introductions to public domain written works from the most familiar
to the least known
-To facilitate understanding of original works by providing additional resources
for auditory learners
